Title: Tesco CREE aluminium torch: initial review
Date: 2013-11-28 12:42
Author: Kevin
Tags: review, torch
Slug: tesco-cree-aluminium-torch-initial-review

Lighting is important. Without it, you run the risk of falling off a
cliff and dying. Along with a knife and a reliable way to make fire, a
torch is a very good tool to have on you.

The question is, what torch to get? You can pick up a multitude of
torches at both ends of the price spectrum, tacticool with insane
brightness or cheapo things that barely throw light more than a few
meters.

[caption id="attachment\_173" align="aligncenter" width="300"][![Tesco
CREE aluminium
torch](/images/2013/11/wpid-IMG_20131128_111736-300x225.jpg)](/images/2013/11/wpid-IMG_20131128_111736.jpg)
Tesco CREE aluminium torch[/caption]

For the [princely sum of
£10](http://http://www.tesco.com/groceries/Product/Details/?id=270576285)
(\~US\$17) you can pick up what seems to be a pretty good torch from the
supermarket chain Tesco. As the name states, it has a CREE LED and an
aluminium body. There are 2 variants, a 2 AA battery and a 2 D version
(which is £15).

[caption id="attachment\_174" align="aligncenter"
width="300"][![Comparison between the Tesco CREE and Fenix
LD20](/images/2013/11/wpid-IMG_20131128_112022-e1385638237529-300x225.jpg)](/images/2013/11/wpid-IMG_20131128_112022.jpg)
Comparison between the Tesco CREE and Fenix LD20[/caption]

Size wise, it is very comparable to the [Fenix
LD20](http://www.amazon.co.uk/Fenix-LD20-180-Lumen-Flashlight/dp/B004CXNY3G).
The Tesco torch is slightly longer -  about a centimetre - and a few
millimetres larger in diameter. It is lacking in the features of the
Fenix LD20 though. The Fenix boasts 4 levels of light intensity - low,
medium, high and turbo - as well as strobe and SOS. The Tesco one just
does on and off. Both have lanyard capability but the LD20 has a pocket
clip.

On the subject of brightness, I was really surprised at how good the
Tesco CREE torch is "out of the box".  There is a noticeable difference
in brightness between the Tesco and the Fenix with the Tesco one coming
out on top. I was really surprised at this. Granted, the Tesco torch had
fresh batteries and the Fenix batteries have been in use for a few weeks
but there shouldn't be a massive difference. Am wondering if the lack of
brightness from the Fenix is due to a battery leaking its guts and
corroding things a bit. Need to clean it up properly.

Not gonna show photos because I don't have a camera decent enough to
capture the performances but trust me, the Tesco CREE is good.

Am gonna use the Tesco CREE for a while (planning on using it on my
bike) and continue to compare it to the Fenix LD20 but at this point, I
think it is a winner.
